# paradata

For our project, we have created the model of the Terry Fox Statue to replicate the iconic image of Terry Fox in order to promote his national identity as a hero.  The statue is a replica of an iconic image of Terry Fox while running his Marathon of Hope which has been used in other commemorative art forms such as the Terry Fox Monument in Thunder Bay.  In Benjamin’s article, he states that “to an ever greater degree the work of art reproduced becomes a work of art designed for reproducibility” which best describes the reasoning for replicating the statue (Benjamin, 1969: 6).  The image that the statues depict will constantly be referenced in times when Canadians need to come together, as Terry Fox's journey from St. Johns to Thunder Bay is often considered the first uniting moment for the people Canada.  The original essence of Terry Fox's spirit has become immortalized in the statues that replicate his legacy.

The location of the Terry Fox Statue in front of the Parliament Buildings is very symbolic to the statue’s aura, with Terry’s father saying that he was very proud that the monument was situated in front of parliament.  This quote from the Benjamin article describes the importance of the location to the original’s value: “the unique value of the “authentic” work of art has its basis in ritual, the location of its original use value. This ritualistic basis, however remote, is still recognizable as secularized ritual even in the most profane forms of the cult of beauty” (Benjamin, 1969: 6).  Without being able to view the background in the 3D model, the replica might lose some of its authenticity.  However this also opens up many new opportunities to digitally locate the statue in other locations of significance.

The Migration of Aura article describes another fundamental thought of the project which is captured in this passage: “the real phenomenon to be accounted for is not the punctual delineation of one version divorced from the rest of its copies, but the whole assemblage made up of one —or several— original(s) together with the retinue of its continually re-written biography” (Latour & Lowe, 2010: 4).  This describes how the image used most frequently of Terry Fox running in commemorative art pieces produces an aura of historic significance that is collectively shared between all the symbolic locations across the country.  With Canada and the world becoming more digitalized, it is only in our best interest to further expand this collection of original iconic poses into the digital environment. 

The resource will be put on the internet so that anyone with the means to access it can view it at any time they wish.  This expands the symbolic significance of the Statues location in front of the Parliament Buildings and ensures that the Terry Fox Statue can cast its shadow on every corner of the country.   The Benjamin article provided another point that the project would like to adhere, which is that “technical reproduction can put the copy of the original into situations which would be out of reach for the original itself” (Benjmin, 1969: 4).  This passage highlights the multitude of ways in which the 3D model can contribute to the commemoration of Terry Fox’s history.  One way to implement the 3D model would be turning it into a social media filter that would be available to users if they were running (traveling a certain speed) on the routes that Terry Fox ventured on during his Marathon of Hope.  

To determine the ontological properties of the Terry Fox Statue, the use of Gavin Lucas’s Grid would be most applicable (Reilly, 2015: 7). The grid is made up of two axes and contains 4 quadrants.  Quadrant A in the upper right of the grid consists of objects that reflect high persistence and impermeability value, quadrant B in the bottom right of the grid consists of objects that reflect high impermeability and momentary values, quadrant C in the lower left of the grid consists of objects that reflect high momentary and permeability value, and quadrant D in the top left of the grid consists of objects that reflect high permeability and persistence value.  The location on the Lucas Grid for Terry Fox as he was running the Marathon of Hope would be placed in quadrant B.  Though Terry is an iconic Canadian figure, he is unfortunately no longer living to contribute to his historic legacy.  Terry’s Legacy lives on through the commemorative replicas that are designated to him.  The location on the Lucas Grid for the Terry Fox Statue would be placed in quadrant A, as it is tangible sculpture that continues to impose the legacy of Terry Fox.  As new technology becomes more incorporated into digital history, it creates more opportunities to preserve the auras of these tangible sculptures.  The location on the Lucas Grid for the 3D digital model of the Terry Fox Statue would be placed in quadrant D, as it is digital information and therefore permeable, however the digital information enables to the replica to still hold persistence qualities similar to the original statue. 


Module 2: History is a Remix

For the task of remixing the Terry Fox Statue, we have decided to fuse the upper half of his body with the neck of an Arabian horse, turning Terry into a mythical creature from ancient Greek lore known as a centaur.  There is method to our madness however.  For the majority of human history, the horse has been the primary mode of transportation and long distance trade on land (David, 2010: Economic and Military Effects of Horseback Riding).  The body of the horse in this remix is used to symbolise many aspects of the original statute.  

There are many concept mentions in Tara Copplestone’s article on Photobashing that relate to the Remix of our 3D Terry Fox model.  The article explains how photobashing is rarely used in archeological work because of its relation to how it artistically displays the original object (Copplestone: 2018).  Copplestone then goes on to justify the benefits of photobashing, stating that it allows one to think more about the object, creating interesting interactions and reflexivity between both the subjective process and the mechanical capture of archaeology (Copplestone: 2018).  It is justified to consider the remix of Terry as art.  The new image brings out an abstract thought about Terry’s legacy, or should I say LEGacy, as by not showing the artificial leg it forces the viewer to see Terry’s connection to the nonhuman component of his image, just as the centaur is forever connected to its non-human component.   The importance of the artificial leg in demonstrating the physical ability of the disabled to perform monuments tasks is shown through symbolism the strength of the horse which opened up travel to humans like never before.

The artificial leg is a very significant part of what the Terry Fox Statue represents and removing it does alter the statue meaning.  Adding a horse’s body to the model and turning Terry into a centaur creates additional meaning to the 3D model.  A theory explaining the origin of the centaur myth, claims that the creature was derived from interactions between isolated mountain peoples and horse riding culture, where the mountain people understood the horse and the human to be one being (Scobie, 1978: 143).  This significance symbolises humans coming into contact with the notion of the disability and human as one being.  The legend of Terry Fox is to Canadians what the centaur was to ancient Greeks, an unimaginable fusion of new technological capability and human being that was able to explain the unimaginable accomplishments.  The combinations is used to showcase the connection between those historical methods used to explain the unimaginable in ancient times and mythical attributes given to Terry Fox by Canadians to describe his journey.  

The history of Terry is then compared to the history of the centaur.  Before Terry many view disabled people, as being confined to an immobile and non-impactful life, Terry however proved these people wrong showing the impressive feats that someone with the power of an artificial leg could accomplish.  This changed the narrative on how people looked at disabilities and how technology gave people the ability to overcome them.  Similarly to how the centaur is a symbolic take on peoplekind’s merger to the horse, Terry Fox is an embodiment of peoplekind’s merger to prosthetics.  

Copying the statue of Terry Fox to create a remix version of it distorts the original but at the same time allows for an interesting new perspective on the original.  Throughout history the art of copying has be practised in every civilization, with each copy adding another creative twist to the story of the original object (Jacob, 2016).  Like 3D models of artifacts acquired during colonial purges, If the proper documentation is done on the copies connection to the original, then the greater history and significance of the object can be displayed through the copy.  Michael Carter explains in his article how remixing the original could be seen as offensive to the culture from which is draws province from (Carter, 2017: 5).  This could be a problem as Terry Fox is an iconic Canadian figure and disrupting his image to turn him into a mythological Greek creature would be offensive if the honorable intentions were not described properly in the paradata. Carter supports this by explaining how if the new remixed model is attached to the paradata then it remains tethered to the original object and can therefore retain its integrity (Carter, 2017: 18).

# Module 3

We chose to use Twine to create our game because we thought it allowed for better representation of the story of Terry Fox through a more interactive and simulative manor. Disregarding the graphical and physical attributes to the game allows for a better focus on the actual story and its morals by forcing the player to relive the difficult dissections that Terry was forced to make.

The code determines the rules of the game and therefore it reflects how Terry’s brave choices were life or death scenarios (Graham & Kee, 2014:275). The code also reflects the decision making of Terry and shows how the player how brave he was in a more direct manor. The game puts the player in the shoes of Terry Fox as they follow his path and are asked to make his difficult decisions. This is a very effective method of teaching the story of Terry Fox and explaining why he is a Canadian hero (Graham & Kee, 2014: 273).

The section in the game where you are given the choice of what Terry would do, you are given the option of "Send your Thoughts and Prayers" which is a way of seeing how current real life events have affecte the Game designers views. If this option is chosen you have an outcome which tells you that your procedure was pointless, in the same sense that giving condolences for a problem without offering a fix is pointless.

The narrative structure of the story provides a different perspective to the Terry Fox story. On Terry’s side at first, it provides a story that is historically based and follows a linear path to simulate Terry’s dedication to his Marathon of Hope. However at the end it adds a twist of imagination, as Terry ascends to the gates of heaven and is awarded the lower body of a horse, and on the horse’s story, there is a nifty tale on how the two individuals meet in the afterlife. Of course this part of the game is entirely fiction but it provided closure to the story of Terry Fox and allows the game to have a goal to look forwards to at the end without disruption the actual historic aspect of the game (Copplestone & Dunne).

# Module 4 

For the fourth and final module we decided to 3D print our digital model of the Centaur Terry Fox Statue, thus turning our fantasy creation into a “real” tangible object.  When we created the Centaur Terry Fox Statue for Module 2, we were intrigued with the possible implications that could come from our design.  Bringing our centaur Terry Fox Statue out of the realm of the digital and into the world of the physical brought a new understanding to the object that didn’t exist in its former identity. 

The main issue was the size of the 3D printed object was a lot smaller in comparison to the size of the original Terry Fox Statue.  Perceived through the medium of a screen, the size of the 3D digital model can be seen to be any size imaginable, as there is no scale to indicate its intended size.  Yet observers familiar with the original Terry Fox Statue will most likely scale the 3D digital model to Terry’s upper torso, and thus imagine the size of the 3D digital model of Centaur Terry Fox to be the proportionally similar to the original statue. 

Once you create a physical 3D replica of an object the size becomes a very important aspect.  The Triumphal Arch replica that was erected in Trafalgar Square in 2016, received negative feedback for its short coming of size; an impactful traits of the original was its sheer size and the replica was built only a 3rd of its scale (Kamash, 2017: 611).  The Terry Fox Statue was made proportionate to Terry’s living figure in order to convey a sense of totemic representation of Terry’s aura, so therefore creating a 3D print toy-sized mash up of this Canadian icon’s statue could be seen as offensive to some interpreters. 

On the contrary, we believe that our 3D printed model of Centaur Terry Fox demonstrates the innovative capabilities that technology brings to the discipline of history and showcases the creativity that can be applied to the telling of history.  Centaur Terry Fox is by no means meant to physically portray an accurate depiction of how Terry Fox looked; instead it is meant to provoke thoughts about Terry’s legendary status as a Canadian Hero.  The horse body that Terry’s is fused to, symbolises Terry Fox’s unhuman-like ability to persevere through his cancer and run his Marathon of Hope, ultimately demonstrating that his accomplishments are just as unbelievable as the centaur that we have turned his image into.  Similarly to what Dr. T. Mills Kelly describes in his article, it is once there are enough “true facts” to be realized about the model, then the “false facts’ become unnoticeable (Kelly, 2014: 317).  It is by realizing these falsehoods in the replica, how they grab your attention as a viewer, that you truly understand the meaning behind Terry Foxes legacy and that his true story was more impressive than any mythical tale.
