# readme

For our project, we have created the model of the Terry Fox Statue to replicate the iconic image of Terry Fox in order to promote his national identity as a hero.  The statue is a replica of an iconic image of Terry Fox while running his Marathon of Hope which has been used in other commemorative art forms such as the Terry Fox Monument in Thunder Bay.  In Benjamin’s article, he states that “to an ever greater degree the work of art reproduced becomes a work of art designed for reproducibility” which best describes the reasoning for replicating the statue (Benjamin, 1969: 6).  The image that the statues depict will constantly be referenced in times when Canadians need to come together, as Terry Fox's journey from St. Johns to Thunder Bay is often considered the first uniting moment for the people Canada.  The original essence of Terry Fox's spirit has become immortalized in the statues that replicate his legacy.

The location of the Terry Fox Statue in front of the Parliament Buildings is very symbolic to the statue’s aura, with Terry’s father saying that he was very proud that the monument was situated in front of parliament.  This quote from the Benjamin article describes the importance of the location to the original’s value: “the unique value of the “authentic” work of art has its basis in ritual, the location of its original use value. This ritualistic basis, however remote, is still recognizable as secularized ritual even in the most profane forms of the cult of beauty” (Benjamin, 1969: 6).  Without being able to view the background in the 3D model, the replica might lose some of its authenticity.  However this also opens up many new opportunities to digitally locate the statue in other locations of significance.

The Migration of Aura article describes another fundamental thought of the project which is captured in this passage: “the real phenomenon to be accounted for is not the punctual delineation of one version divorced from the rest of its copies, but the whole assemblage made up of one —or several— original(s) together with the retinue of its continually re-written biography” (Latour & Lowe, 2010: 4).  This describes how the image used most frequently of Terry Fox running in commemorative art pieces produces an aura of historic significance that is collectively shared between all the symbolic locations across the country.  With Canada and the world becoming more digitalized, it is only in our best interest to further expand this collection of original iconic poses into the digital environment. 

The resource will be put on the internet so that anyone with the means to access it can view it at any time they wish.  This expands the symbolic significance of the Statues location in front of the Parliament Buildings and ensures that the Terry Fox Statue can cast its shadow on every corner of the country.   The Benjamin article provided another point that the project would like to adhere, which is that “technical reproduction can put the copy of the original into situations which would be out of reach for the original itself” (Benjmin, 1969: 4).  This passage highlights the multitude of ways in which the 3D model can contribute to the commemoration of Terry Fox’s history.  One way to implement the 3D model would be turning it into a social media filter that would be available to users if they were running (traveling a certain speed) on the routes that Terry Fox ventured on during his Marathon of Hope.  
