# Object Biography


The Government of Canada issued the construction of the Terry Fox Statue in 1983 by artist John Hooper and was originally unveiled on September 17 of that year at the intersection of Wellington Street and Colonel By Drive.  On July 1, 1998, as part of the Path of Heroes initiative that was created to commemorate the national heroes of Canada, the Terry Fox Statue was relocated to 90 Wellington Street in front of the Parliament Buildings (Ebner, 1998). 

Terrance Stanley Fox (Terry) was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba but raised in Port Coquitlam, British Columbia.  In 1977 at the age of 18, Terry was diagnosed with bone cancer and doctors were forced to amputate his right leg 15 centimeters above the knee (Martha, 2017).  In 1979 Terry began to start training to run across Canada on what he called his Marathon of Hope (Martha, 2017).  On April 12, 1980, the dream became a reality, as Terry dipped his artificial leg into the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of St Johns, Newfoundland and set off on his journey. On average Terry would run 42 kilometers per day and would be accompanied by his best friend Doug Alward who would drive behind Terry (Martha, 2017). Unfortunately just mere moments away from Thunder Bay on September 1, 1980, Terry stopped running and asked to go to a hospital.  Terry’s refusal to go back to the cancer treatment centre came back to bite him.  Doctors in Thunder Bay determined that the cancer had reappeared in Terry’s lungs and he was forced to put his Marathon of Hope on hold (Martha, 2017). 

Terry Fox never did recover from his cancer and passed away in New Westminster, Bristish Columbia at the Royal Columbian Hospital on June 28, 1981 at the age of 22 (Martha, 2017).  Terry’s story captured the attention of the nation and he was named Newsmaker of the Year for 1980 and 1981 (Perrone, 2013: 2).  The attention that Terry received for his actions transformed him into a Canadian icon and he was awarded the Order of Canada on September 18th, 1980, and received British Columbia’s highest honour, the Order of Dogwood, on October 21st, 1980 (Perrone, 2013: 14-15).  Terry’s hard work paid off and by February 17th, 1981 his Marathon of Hope was able to raise approximately 24 million in total, achieving the goal of raising $1 for every Canadian and consisting mainly of private donations (Martha, 2017). 


Module 2: History is a Remix

Human’s relation with the horse began ten thousand to fourteen thousand years ago in Eurasia as game for humans to hunt at the end of the ice age and began to be domesticated   in the Eurasian steppe around 5000 BCE for their meat (David, 2010: Where Were Horses First Domesticated?).  Horses first began to be ridden by herders around 4000 BCE and were primarily used for transportation in many places by 1500-1000 BCE (David, 2010: Economic and Military Effects of Horseback Riding).  Horses provided increased herding and agricultural outputs and allowed for long distance transportation on land trade routes that better connected groups of people greatly increasing economies to a more global scale (David, 2010: Economic and Military Effects of Horseback Riding).  

Centaurs are mythological creatures that famously show up in Greek mythology, but are seen in many other cultures.  In Northern Europe, centaurs were originally depicted as water spirits, portraying a rough and violent character of the natural wilderness (Scobie, 1978: 142).   It is thought that the centaur first appeared in Greek folklore as depictions of horse riding invaders (Scobie, 1978: 144).  There is much speculation that the Idea of the centaur traveled west into Europe as images of a half horse, half human are depicted much earlier in the near East (Scobie, 1978: 145). 


